<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/javaee-darb.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
  <div class="ind">
    <a id="GEXAF"></a><a id="JEETT00063"></a>

    <h1 class="preface">Preface</h1>

    <p>This tutorial is a guide to developing enterprise applications for the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition 7 (Java EE 7), using GlassFish Server Open Source Edition.</p>

    <p>GlassFish Server Open Source Edition is the leading open-source and open-community platform for building and deploying next-generation applications and services. GlassFish Server Open Source Edition, developed by the GlassFish project open-source community at <code><a href="../Text/https://glassfish.java.net/.xhtml#https://glassfish.java.net/">https://glassfish.java.net/</a></code>, is the first compatible implementation of the Java EE 7 platform specification. This lightweight, flexible, and open-source application server enables organizations not only to leverage the new capabilities introduced within the Java EE 7 specification, but also to add to their existing capabilities through a faster and more streamlined development and deployment cycle. GlassFish Server Open Source Edition is hereafter referred to as GlassFish Server.</p>

    <p>The following topics are addressed here:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><a href="../Text/preface.xhtml#CIACGIBD">Audience</a></p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><a href="../Text/preface.xhtml#CIAHFICG">Documentation Accessibility</a></p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><a href="../Text/preface.xhtml#BNAAC">Before You Read This Book</a></p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><a href="../Text/preface.xhtml#GIPRL">Related Documentation</a></p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><a href="../Text/preface.xhtml#GKVTF">Conventions</a></p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p><a href="../Text/preface.xhtml#GFIRK">Default Paths and File Names</a></p>
      </li>
    </ul><a id="CIACGIBD"></a>

    <h2 class="prefsect1" id="sigil_toc_id_782">Audience</h2>

    <p>This tutorial is intended for programmers interested in developing and deploying Java EE 7 applications. It covers the technologies comprising the Java EE platform and describes how to develop Java EE components and deploy them on the Java EE Software Development Kit (SDK).</p><a id="CIAHFICG"></a>

    <h2 class="prefsect1" id="sigil_toc_id_783">Documentation Accessibility</h2>

    <p>For information about Oracle's commitment to accessibility, visit the Oracle Accessibility Program website at <code><a href="../Text/http://www.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=acc&amp;id=docacc.xhtml#http://www.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=acc&amp;id=docacc">http://www.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=acc&amp;id=docacc</a></code>.</p><a id="BNAAC"></a><a id="JEETT00301"></a>

    <h2 class="prefsect1" id="sigil_toc_id_784">Before You Read This Book</h2>

    <p>Before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a good knowledge of the Java programming language. A good way to get to that point is to work through the Java Tutorials (<code><a href="../Text/http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/index.xhtml#http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/index.html">http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/index.html</a></code>).</p><a id="GIPRL"></a><a id="JEETT00302"></a>

    <h2 class="prefsect1" id="sigil_toc_id_785">Related Documentation</h2>

    <p>The GlassFish Server documentation set describes deployment planning and system installation. To obtain documentation for GlassFish Server Open Source Edition, go to <code><a href="../Text/https://glassfish.java.net/docs/.xhtml#https://glassfish.java.net/docs/">https://glassfish.java.net/docs/</a></code>.</p>

    <p>The Java EE 7 API specification can be viewed at <code><a href="../Text/http://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/.xhtml#http://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/">http://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/</a></code> and is also provided in the Java EE 7 SDK.</p>

    <p>Additionally, the Java EE Specifications at <code><a href="../Text/http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javaee/tech/index.xhtml#http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javaee/tech/index.html">http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javaee/tech/index.html</a></code> might be useful.</p>

    <p>For information about creating enterprise applications in the NetBeans Integrated Development Environment (IDE), see <code><a href="../Text/http://www.netbeans.org/kb/.xhtml#http://www.netbeans.org/kb/">http://www.netbeans.org/kb/</a></code>.</p>

    <p>For information about the Java DB database for use with GlassFish Server, see <code><a href="../Text/http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javadb/overview/index.xhtml#http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javadb/overview/index.html">http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javadb/overview/index.html</a></code>.</p>

    <p>The GlassFish Samples project is a collection of sample applications that demonstrate a broad range of Java EE technologies. The GlassFish Samples are bundled with the Java EE Software Development Kit (SDK) and are also available from the GlassFish Samples project page at <code><a href="../Text/https://glassfish-samples.java.net/.xhtml#https://glassfish-samples.java.net/">https://glassfish-samples.java.net/</a></code>.</p><a id="GKVTF"></a><a id="JEETT00303"></a>

    <h2 class="prefsect1" id="sigil_toc_id_786">Conventions</h2>

    <p>The following table describes the typographic conventions that are used in this book.</p>

    <div class="inftblhruleinformal">
      <table border="1" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="0" class="HRuleInformal" dir="ltr" frame="hsides" rules="rows" summary="This table describes the meaning of each typeface used in the book and provides examples." title="Typographic Conventions" width="100%">
        <col width="15%" />
        <col width="40%" />
        <col width="*" />

        <thead>
          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <th align="left" id="r1c1-t2" valign="bottom">Convention</th>

            <th align="left" id="r1c2-t2" valign="bottom">Meaning</th>

            <th align="left" id="r1c3-t2" valign="bottom">Example</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>

        <tbody>
          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <td align="left" headers="r1c1-t2" id="r2c1-t2">
              <p><span class="bold">Boldface</span></p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r2c1-t2 r1c2-t2">
              <p>Boldface type indicates graphical user interface elements associated with an action or terms defined in text.</p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r2c1-t2 r1c3-t2">
              <p>From the <span class="gui-object-action">File</span> menu, choose <span class="gui-object-action">Open Project</span>.</p>

              <p>A <span class="bold">cache</span> is a copy that is stored locally.</p>
            </td>
          </tr>

          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <td align="left" headers="r1c1-t2" id="r3c1-t2">
              <p><code>Monospace</code></p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r3c1-t2 r1c2-t2">
              <p>Monospace type indicates the names of files and directories, commands within a paragraph, URLs, code in examples, text that appears on the screen, or text that you enter.</p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r3c1-t2 r1c3-t2">
              <p>Edit your <code>.login</code> file.</p>

              <p>Use <code>ls</code> <code>-a</code> to list all files.</p>

              <p><code>machine_name% you have mail.</code></p>
            </td>
          </tr>

          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <td align="left" headers="r1c1-t2" id="r4c1-t2">
              <p>Italic</p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r4c1-t2 r1c2-t2">
              <p>Italic type indicates book titles, emphasis, or placeholder variables for which you supply particular values.</p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r4c1-t2 r1c3-t2">
              <p>Read Chapter 6 in the <span class="italic">User's Guide</span>.</p>

              <p>Do <span class="italic">not</span> save the file.</p>

              <p>The command to remove a file is <code>rm</code> <span class="variable">filename</span>.</p>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table><br />
    </div><a id="GFIRK"></a><a id="JEETT00304"></a>

    <h2 class="prefsect1" id="sigil_toc_id_787">Default Paths and File Names</h2>

    <p>The following table describes the default paths and file names that are used in this book.</p>

    <div class="inftblhruleinformal">
      <table border="1" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="0" class="HRuleInformal" dir="ltr" frame="hsides" rules="rows" summary="This table describes each path placeholder and provides its default values on different platforms." title="Default Paths¶and File Names" width="100%">
        <col width="19%" />
        <col width="32%" />
        <col width="*" />

        <thead>
          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <th align="left" id="r1c1-t3" valign="bottom">Placeholder</th>

            <th align="left" id="r1c2-t3" valign="bottom">Description</th>

            <th align="left" id="r1c3-t3" valign="bottom">Default Value</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>

        <tbody>
          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <td align="left" headers="r1c1-t3" id="r2c1-t3">
              <p><span class="variable">as-install</span></p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r2c1-t3 r1c2-t3">
              <p>Represents the base installation directory for GlassFish Server or the SDK of which GlassFish Server is a part.</p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r2c1-t3 r1c3-t3">
              <p>Installations on the Solaris operating system, Linux operating system, and Mac operating system:</p>

              <p><span class="variable">user's-home-directory</span><code>/glassfish4/glassfish</code></p>

              <p>Windows, all installations:</p>

              <p><span class="variable">SystemDrive</span><code>:\glassfish4\glassfish</code></p>
            </td>
          </tr>

          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <td align="left" headers="r1c1-t3" id="r3c1-t3">
              <p><span class="variable">as-install-parent</span></p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r3c1-t3 r1c2-t3">
              <p>Represents the parent of the base installation directory for GlassFish Server.</p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r3c1-t3 r1c3-t3">
              <p>Installations on the Solaris operating system, Linux operating system, and Mac operating system:</p>

              <p><span class="variable">user's-home-directory</span><code>/glassfish4</code></p>

              <p>Windows, all installations:</p>

              <p><span class="variable">SystemDrive</span><code>:\glassfish4</code></p>
            </td>
          </tr>

          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <td align="left" headers="r1c1-t3" id="r4c1-t3">
              <p><span class="variable">tut-install</span></p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r4c1-t3 r1c2-t3">
              <p>Represents the base installation directory for the <span class="italic">Java EE Tutorial</span> after you install GlassFish Server or the SDK and run the Update Tool.</p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r4c1-t3 r1c3-t3">
              <p><span class="variable">as-install-parent</span><code>/docs/javaee-tutorial</code></p>
            </td>
          </tr>

          <tr align="left" valign="top">
            <td align="left" headers="r1c1-t3" id="r5c1-t3">
              <p><span class="variable">domain-dir</span></p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r5c1-t3 r1c2-t3">
              <p>Represents the directory in which a domain's configuration is stored.</p>
            </td>

            <td align="left" headers="r5c1-t3 r1c3-t3">
              <p><span class="variable">as-install</span><code>/domains/domain1</code></p>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table><br />
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
